 Alright, so some stuff about me for this personal website. My name is Steven and my last name is Lajuwomi. And I recently graduated from Hardin-Simmons University in Abilene, Texas, which is a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science. Graduated last year in December, like December 15th or something, I don't remember. and right after that I had applied to a job at this place called Directors Investment Group slash funeral director's life here in Abilene, Texas and they ended up hiring me as a software developer. That's my official title but I am technically a junior software engineer but yeah, my journey of computer science started quite a while back Growing up I'd always been on computers My dad was an accountant And ever since I was like 3 or 4 I've been on computers playing different video games We had CDs back then I played Jumpstart And Lego Island And a lot of Unbrunescape was a game I played a lot Played a lot of A lot of that Another random MMO called Dragon Sang Online Which is now kind of dead but I put a lot of games and yeah games was how I got used computers and they got really good at them spent a lot of time with them at my house I was kind of knows like the tech guy that would be able to fix anybody's computers or problems because I just knew how to work them and when I was 14 ish I went to library found a book on scratch the block based programming language and I made a couple of games. It was really fun. That was pretty much the first code I'd ever written. I don't really consider it code, but then after that, I got into Khan Academy and did their HTML, CSS, and JavaScript course, and learned how to do some more coding stuff then. That's kind of how I got into coding and thought about maybe I would want to do this as a career on computer science because some of my friends, friends of my parents worked as like network engineers and stuff so thought it might be interesting. I kind of didn't code ever since that point and I just kind of went about life and right when I was 16 things in my life kind of took a different turn. I went out and got my first job, I was working as an optometric technician for an eye doctor. I was basically kind of a nurse that would do some tests before patients went to go see the doctor. And I wanted to get a job because in 8th grade I met some friends who played FIFA and wanted to play FIFA with them. My parents would not buy me a video game console to play FIFA so I wanted to earn the money to go with myself which I did. that I got into playing FIFA and playing video games in general. And this was kind of a bad thing for me because I was homeschool at the time, and I, for one reason or another, got really, really hooked into video games. I think a lot of it was for a vast majority of my childhood life. I kind of lived I was a bit insecure about myself, but anxious. I was kind of always vying for attention from other people and my parents because my older brother was a very smart individual. He was just kind of born that way. He was always smart. So he was also in school, practically genius. And I just like that kind of because he went out places. He would always have all the attention and no one would want to talk to me. I had no friends growing up and uh felt a lot of it was because I wasn't smart I wasn't you know able to contribute in this conversation at the same time I wasn't strong either I couldn't play sports that well but I really tried when I was younger we tried to play baseball really well we tried to do really anything I could to prove myself but uh I failed at pretty much everything um so when video games came along my brother just got out of school and for whatever reason um maybe that had some effect on my psyche and i just kind of got fed up with life i was like i kind of just didn't want to continue with school or go to college or anything i just kind of want to play video games all day and just be in a world where i can be super powerful and be super strong and do things i want to do like you know be a sports player or you know in red dead be kind of a cowboy kind of person and uh i kind of just went off the deep and got really addicted to video games, played for multiple hours a day. My parents would get really mad at me. They'd take my consoles. I would get super mad just and occasionally hit people and hurt myself and do other type of things. So I got sent to a lot of behavioral hospitals during that time, like three or four to my parents' attempts to try and help me in my situation. All this kind of happened And, you know, when the time was for me to go to school, I was 18. I pretty much failed my senior year, so I had to go with early admission. And I really did not want to go, but my parents' remorse forced me to go. And this was kind of a problem. Because when I got to school, I picked computer science because I felt that was like the only thing that was somewhat interesting. I didn't want to be anything else. I went to a small private school called Pensacola Christian College. That's where my brother went to and graduated from. But I didn't want to do school. Even though I didn't have my console anymore, I would find ways to play games. like on my small mini laptop i found ways to pirate games and play on there um play games on my phone as it didn't pay attention to the school work i was doing had pretty bad grades like an average 2.8 gp or something or 215 back then it was pretty bad um that was my first two years of school and uh near the end of my the start of my junior year um something pretty bad happened so we used c at that school c is the language it taught us and i was taking the course called data structure and algorithm c which was like probably the hardest course in the entire curriculum there for computer science students for obvious reasons um doing c with that low level memory kind of thing. The destruction of algorithms is pretty hard. But one of the first assignments I could not figure out, and I essentially cheated. I went to Course Hero and copy-paste the code that worked. And my teacher, obviously, assumed that I had cheated when he saw my work, and he called me to his office and told me to explain it to prove myself, and I did not do a great job of that. At the end of that session, And he told me that I did not have the logical brain required to be a sophomore engineer. And basically just told me to change my major and that wasn't smart to do this. And that kind of really hit me a lot harder than I thought it would have. I think I was kind of already at an emotional low point because I was again having the same Kind of problem in school where I just couldn't really find my groove I wasn't good at my classes, I wasn't good at sports I couldn't talk to girls I had a good decent amount of friends Kind of friends, I just knew some popular people And kind of hanged out with them but nobody really actually wanted to hang out with me so again i was super lonely and uh just didn't really know what i wanted to do with myself and when i heard this i kind of you kind of just validated all the thoughts i already had about myself about the fact that i was you know not smart and not good enough and it was like someone else told me that straight to my face um who was not part of my family or anything and didn't have any other sort of like you know motives in that aspect so that kind of hit me hard and the rest of the swissers basically gave up started playing this game called rise of kingdoms on my phone it was a pretty bad game to play because it's very pay-to-win I spent like three thousand dollars on a game and I basically failed all my classes except for one I think it passed HTML or something and uh it sucked i came back home i told my parents i didn't want to go back to school and uh obviously i couldn't i couldn't go back they did force me to take some courses online at purdue but basically stayed at home for half a year um this would have been in 2023 i believe right they started in 2020 and 2021 second year yeah this movement is 2023 um the fall and the spring and summer of 2023 i was at home i tried to do this online sales course i take sales with this guy called cole gordon that completely flopped it was terrible i essentially got scammed um by a lot of companies i made sales for and they never paid me so that was a disaster so after that i was like you know this whole money making online thing is going to work um i try to do the same thing when i was 16 and 17 to trying to avoid going to college but with drop shipping also fail so now i'm here and i am wondering like what am i gonna do with myself. I kind of have to go to school if I want to make any sort of money because I can't start a business and I started applying for schools pretty late and one school that accepted me and my credits and our sale applications open was Hardin-Simmons University so I went there. So my first semester at Hardin Seminary Affairs was actually really good. It's kind of a fresh start for me. I really tried hard, the classes weren't that difficult for me. Um, it was programming design, too much job by the head take. It was one of the classes and some other classes but um, I liked to there. I got acquainted with a person like on the first day, he was an older guy around four years old who'd been coding for like 10 years on his own. used to be an accountant, couldn't find a job and he would code for 10 years on his own tried to get a job self-taught so he came out of school I also was at Hardin-Simmons for the same reason that I was because he was one of those few places still accepting applications so that was good for me because I had a friend and everything but my second semester did not go as well um halfway through the year i got sick with this thing i was born with sickle cell anemia it's a blood disorder and um it took me out for about two weeks like right around midterm i had a pain crisis i couldn't do anything and that had involved me having to take my tessellate and I just wasn't as prepared as I would have been and my grades just got tanked and uh that really ticked me off like I was I was so mad that like I had tried so hard to do all this stuff and you know now just out of pure circumstance um my all the hard work's gone it It was like the past couple years, it felt like just constant Ls for me, like loss after loss. And this was another one that wasn't even my fault technically. So I feel like I was super ticked off and Path of Exile 2 came out, which I placed in Path of Exile my junior, my freshman and sophomore year at Pensacola. And when Path of Exile 2 came out, I just had to play the game. I got on to cloud gaming My PC couldn't even play the game And I got locked in I played for like three weeks straight In my room, I didn't go to any classes I just sat and gained all day Up until the finals where My teacher, my advisor Messaged me and asked me what happened And I had to go and tell him And I ended up taking my finals I didn't fail out this time But there's another instance of video games Kind of ruining my life um that was terrible i'm back in the summer um didn't really take any classes i was pretty locked in that summer i did a lot of like coding tutorials and things i kind of hopped all over the place so i didn't get really anything significant done but mainly that was because my parents wouldn't let me play video games so i went back the next semester and i was you know pretty determined to not do the same thing again. I got a therapist because I noticed after the last time this happened, I went three weeks straight that I obviously could not control this. So I got a therapist which kind of helped. My grades weren't terrible last semester but they weren't great either. But it was an overall Kind of a Decent semester Near the end I Kind of crashed out again for a little bit Primarily because I got sick again But thankfully for me It didn't It did have some effect I barely passed My linear algebra class I probably shouldn't have There were a lot of files I didn't take I'm kind of vague on this But there was a There was a project we were doing for this UIUX class We had to build something We were trying to build a game And the other two people There were four of us Me and my friend The 4-year-old guy Danny And two other guys who basically did nothing Me and Danny preached everything But the last week For whatever reason I didn't show up to a lot of things I think I got sick again And that again Sent me spiraling But I didn't take a lot of finals And I failed that UX class Almost failed in algebra Almost failed physics Um But yeah, I kind of lost my headspace again And uh Remember when I came back home This is going to be December of 2024 Um And I was supposed to go back For the next semester and I had been on loans this entire time. My dad had basically co-signed all of them for me and his credit was not doing that great because my brother had still not paid off his loans because he hadn't gotten a job and some other things that were going on, we had a little bit of real estate mishap but I remember when my dad asked me about my schoolwork he thought I'd been doing well but I had not been and I just remember the look at his face how he was kind of disappointed but also it was like he kind of expected at this point that I wasn't going to be any good at what I was doing it almost looked like he didn't believe in me anymore. I remember as I got back in my car to drive back to school that I started just crying in my car, which I had not cried for years at this point. Ever since I was 18, that was the last time I cried. I was so disappointed that I hadn't wasted this chance I had to start over and not make the same mistakes I had made before. But I made all the same mistakes. And, yeah, it just ended in essentially a complete disaster. I was so ticked off. And I was like, yo, next semester's got to be better. It was going to be effectively my senior year because I was going to graduate late December 2025. So, yeah, but I came back next semester in spring and we had our senior project. And I was just determined to do better this time. And I kind of just locked in. There were 15 people on our senior project that were supposed to work in it. And me and my friend did like 90% of the work. I think I wrote around 20,000 lines of code for that project Which is more code than ever in my life And I also got some of the best grades I ever had in my life Granted they weren't the hardest classes But there's still some of the best grades I had And the following summer Also some of the best grades I had And December I also had some amazing grades Right before I graduated That happened to get a job and uh along the way during this year i started a youtube channel where i would just record myself every day just coding um i did this because i'd seen other people do it on youtube and it was like a way to keep myself accountable and to like kind of change my identity for a long time didn't really know who i was or who i wanted to be um which is why i think things like video games were very enticing to me because they um they kind of fantasized you know what i could what someone could achieve you know in a virtual world which is what i wanted the real world but i could never find for some reason so and it was also kind of after i read the book atomic habits i wanted to sort of have it so i would code every single day um on that youtube channel and really helped me just you know prevent myself from sinking the same Hawaii slunk in many times before of gaming because I had something else to do. I just knew I had to come back and make a video every day. I went through the boot.dev backend course. That's what I did on all those videos. I learned a lot from that But yeah, that was like One of the few years in that time span That I felt like I was actually You know, productive and got things done And I was pretty proud of myself back then Especially at the project we did Our senior project Which was Cowboy Cards It was supposed to be kind of a flashcard application Mainly targeted towards Language teachers That taught like Hebrew and the goal was to have like you know kind of teacher avenue where they can you know uh import cards have presets set that they gives their classes it was going to be like a leader board and things um which we actually implanted all that me and my friend but um a lot of it was just struggle because nobody else on the team really did anything but i learned so much doing that project um use a lot of ai in it as well cursor was made with uh react uh not react ionic ionic react with react as because it was both a mobile and a web app that's how we did that and um yeah that was super fun for me and probably the biggest thing like on my portfolio that I've done but yeah that's the kind of story of my life and I got this job I'm working here at Direction Investment Group coding in Ruby and in Java and you know I've been here for like six or not six months like four months now I think I started January 21st and it's been really going really well like uh people are getting along with people and they're getting along with me and my code has been good of him i made really good progress had 90 days to do onboarding but i finished it in like 30 days uh permanently because i used ai to help me but i also you know it was i think a little bit smarter than expected i actually bombed the interview i have no idea why they hired me but you know it's another story for another day. It's just kind of the story of my life up to this point and you know how I got into computer science and I think it'd be kind of helpful for this website.